The Regenerate initiative (TRI) for Community Health and Youth Development
                                     … the change starts with you
Vision
To regenerate communities in Nigeria through promotion of healthy living and total youth development 
Mission
To regenerate communities in Nigeria for sustainable development through effective mobilization of resources for community health, education and empowerment of youths and community projects
Objectives
    1. To moblise resources to help the less privileged, indigents, vulnerable groups in their health and education needs towards making Nigeria a better place; 

    2. To sensitize and encourage youths towards a clear career path for future strategic positioning and meaningful contribution to the development of Nigeria;

    3. To mobilise resources towards the construction of essential community projects like public toilets, borehole drilling and other relevant community projects; 

    4.  To partner with the government, civil society groups and other relevant institutions to alleviate poverty and improve the well-being within communities, groups and individuals in Nigeria; and

    5. To organise regular capacity building programmes for key stakeholders relevant to achieve better community health and youth development for a better Nigeria.



Our Core Values
Philosophically and by operations, The Regenerate Initiative TRI is guided by the international best practices embedded in our core values acronymed thus: ETICARP
E: Ethics
T: Transparency 
I: Integrity 
C: Compassion
A: Accountability
R: Responsibility
P: Professionalism

About Us
The Regenerate Initiative (TRI) for Community Health and Youth Development is a product of the professional insight and academic journey of the Founder and National Coordinator, Dr. Semiu Bello, who is a media and commination expert, researcher and scholar, with special interest in health and development communication. Semiu Bello studied HND, B.A. M.Sc and PhD in Mass Communication as well as Master’s Degree in Media Resources Management. 
The idea of an NGO that focuses on community health and youth development was birthed during his PhD scholarship at the University of Canterbury, New Zealand where he consolidated his scholarship on health and development communication. The insight from both fields of health and development communication drove the establishment and the operation of TRI.
Health communication, which is defined as a multidisciplinary field of study and practice that applies communication evidence, strategy, theory, and creativity to promote behaviors, policies, and practices that advance the health and well-being of people and populations, has reflected profoundly in many of Dr. Semiu Bello’s academic publications.


Development communication refers to the use of communication to facilitate social development. Development communication engages stakeholders and policy makers, establishes conducive environments, assesses risks and opportunities and promotes information exchange to create positive social change via sustainable development. Development communication techniques include information dissemination and education, behavior change, social marketing, social mobilization, media advocacy, communication for social change, and community participation. Several publications of Dr. Semiu Bello have been in the direction of development communication as well. 
During the defense of his PhD thesis at the University of Canterbury, New Zealand, the external examiner, Prof.  C. Kay Weaver posed a question to Dr. Semiu Bello thus: ‘what is your major take away from your thesis’? ‘Establishment of a non-government organization that would focus on community health and youth development in Nigeria’, was Dr. Bello’s spontaneous response! This indeed marked the conceptualisation stage of the NGO.
The initial name of the NGO, however, was Network for Communications, Health Promotions and Development. This name was approved by the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) in Nigeria in 2017 and newspaper publication followed immediately. After this stage, there was a long silence as no further action was taken. It got stuck!
On Saturday 4th May, 2019, Dr. Semiu Bello was involved in a fatal accident which fractured his right ankle. Dr. Bello was in bed for two years and went through three different surgeries. Consequent upon the accident, the right leg became about 4cm shorter than the left leg and was not healing as expected. In the long-run, Dr. Bello landed at the National Orthopedic Hospital, Dala, Kano where Ilizarov Surgery Procedure was performed on the right leg to lengthen it equal the length of the left leg. 
The Ilizarov surgical method of distraction osteogenesis (regeneration of bone and soft tissues) for repairing complex fractures of the bones is the preferred treatment for cases featuring a high risk of bacterial infection; and for cases wherein the extent and severity of the fracture precludes using internal fixators to immobilise the damaged bone for proper repair. In a simple language, Ilizarov surgical procedure is used to lengthen limbs wherein a new bone would grow to cover for the lost length. 
This new bone that grows to lengthen the limb as required is called REGENERARE. Technically, therefore, regenerate implies rebirth, refresh, reform, rekindle, renew, improve, revive, reborn, revitalize, restore, reinvigorate. This is where the spirit and the idea of The Regenerate Initiative arose. The regenerate regenerated (reinvigorated, revitalized, improved) my right leg and I could walk very better today! In the process, I didn’t spend less than N5,000,000 the larger chunk of which was a donation from friends, associates and well-wishers. 
Given the overwhelming support I enjoyed during this hard time and my love for the community development, I rekindled the spirit of the NGO to replicate the kind of gestures I received to support many less privilege and vulnerable groups in Nigeria. Therefore, the Nigerian society needs to be regenerated, rebirthed, reformed, refreshed, revived, revitalized, reinvigorated and in our context, focusing on two broad areas: community health and youth development. 
It was on the sick bed in 2021 that the Founder and National Coordinator of TRI, Dr. Semiu Bello, who is passionate about community and youth development, reactivated the registration process of the NGO and at this time, The Regenerate Initiative was successfully registered. All said and done, The Regenerate Initiative for Community Health and Youth Development was registered on the 4th of June 2021. While the full name of the NGO is The Regenerate Initiative for Community Health and Youth Development, the short form is The Regenerated Initiative (Tri). TRI has since been in operations by helping people in various developmental ways.
Our Specific Activities and Programmes
    1. Education Support Fund (ESF): We assist and support students across the country, who are financially challenged, to pay their school fees. It may be a total payment for an academic session, a part payment for an academic session or a full sponsorship throughout the academic programme. Our approach and process are rigorous and based on research before a student-applicant can qualify as a beneficiary.

    2. Medical Support Fund (MSF): We assist and support people across the country, who are financially challenged but have serious and severe medical condition, to pay their medical bills. It may be a total payment or a part payment. Our approach and process are rigorous and based on research before an applicant can qualify as a beneficiary. 


    3. Youth Empowerment Scheme (YES): We assist and support youths across the country, who are financially challenged, to acquire tools and equipment for their craftwork in order to be empowered and self-dependent economically. Our empowerment may also come in form of start-up fund after our in-house or outsourced experts must have done a critical assessment of the business proposal submitted by applicants and prospective beneficiaries. Our approach in this case is that we go all out to acquire or purchase the tools or equipment needed ourselves. We do not give the fund to the beneficiaries. We acquire the tools and equipment in the name of the beneficiaries and present to them. Depending on the availability of fund, our support may be total or partial. 

    4. Community Development Projects (CDP): We initiate and mobilise resources for the execution of valuable and essential community projects including, but not limited to, public toilets, borehole, free medical service/medical caravan, sensitization on public health issues, hygiene living among the community people, donation and distribution of educational materials, and health materials/needs to the sick.


    5. Youth Sensitisation and Value Reorientation (YSVR): We embark on public campaign to sensitise and re-orientate the youthful population in Nigeria on essential values, norms attitudes and behaviours that are in tandem with our cultural identity and values. These include: integrity, honesty, hard-work, responsibility, civility, respect, selflessness, dignity, patriotism, sacrifice, unity, appreciation of diversity. While we re-orientate the youths toward all of these values, we also campaign against many misdemeanours including, but not limited to, drug intakes and abuse, gambling, cybercrime, destructive tendencies, ritualism, get-rich-quick syndrome, academic fraudulence and cultism. Our youth sensitization and Value Reorientation activities are actualised through public lectures, commemoration lectures on international youth or similar global dates, guidance and counselling sessions and other similar public campaign outings. 

    6. Capacity Building Programmes (CBP): We also organise capacity building programmes for important stakeholders who can be instrumental towards the achievement of our vision, mission and objectives. These stakeholders may include, but not limited to, youth leaders, health care providers, community leaders, leaders of community organisations, campus organisation leaders, principals of secondary schools, guidance and counsellors of secondary schools, religious organisation leaders.

    7. Coaching and Mentorship Programme (CMP): We provide platforms for mentorship to the youths across Nigeria. Our mentorship programme is designed to lift the younger generation and ease their tasks regarding career progression, timely and strategic actualization of dream, networking and connection for professional advancement. We have assisted many young minds though our CMP and they are our pride today. 
Sources of Fund and Mobilisation of Resources

Fund and resources mobilisation are very essential in achieving the lofty objectives of The Regenerate Initiative (TRI) yet, funds and resources are quite challenging to come-by. Given the passion to regenerate the Nigerian society through community health and total youth development, we remain resolute and we are motivated to do our best. Therefore, we have relied majorly on the following channels for fund and resources mobilisation:
    1. Corporate funding and sponsorship
    2. Individual donation and sponsorship within and outside Nigeria
    3. Fund raising 
    4. International donor agencies
    5. Partnership with government agencies
    6. Endowment 

Our Team
Dr. Bello S. M.
PhD, M.Sc., MMRM, B.A, HND
www.semiubelloola@gmail.com
Health and Development Communication Expert
Senior Lecturer at Kwara State University Nigeria
Founder and National Coordinator
+2348030466019



Dr. Obipehin W. O.
MSc (Anatomy), MbChB
Medical Practitioner
Resident Doctor at Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital Sagamu
TRI In-House Medical Doctor
+2348062592561

Dr. Aina S. A.
PhD, M.Sc, B.Sc
Entomologist and Pest Manager
Lecturer at Olabisi Onabanjo University Ago Iwoye
TRI Research and Linkages Officer
+234 805 615 4796

Mr. Tijani M. A.
M.Sc, MPH, B.Sc
Public Health Specialist 
Public Health Expert with Ogun State Ministry of Health
TRI Public Health Advocacy Officer
+234 802 392 8307

Mr. Muritala B. F.
Business and Financial Expert
CEO of Famam Integrated Ventures
TRI Programme, Logistics and Mobilisation Officer
+2347080508894

Mrs. Adekoga N. O.
M.Sc, B.A., OND
Communication Expert
TRI Communication and Media Manager
+61431079704

Mr. Anifowose L. O. 
M.Sc., M.Sc., B.Tech
Biochemistry Scholar and Researcher
TRI Research and Data Analyst 
+2348065020562
Mr. Adekunle H. T. 
B.Sc., ACA, ACMA, CGMA
Financial and Accounting Specialist
Maikano Motors, Lagos
TRI Financial Officer
+2347014074211

Mr. Raji M.O.
B.Sc., OND
Journalist and Media Expert
Senior Correspondent 
Vanguards Newspaper, Nigeria
TRI IT & Social Media Officer
+2348162447475

Esq. Suleiman I. A.
LLB, BL, B.Sc
Legal Practitioner
TRI Legal Adviser
+2348054117580

Volunteer Services
Apart from the TRI Team members listed above, we also leverage on volunteering service which allows community enthusiasts and advocates to render services to TRI especially when we have events. Volunteers reach out to us to identify with what we do, and use our platform to render community services to many individuals and communities for a better Nigeria.  The tradition of TRI is to present a letter and certificate of commendation to our volunteers at the end of the community services rendered. This is a way of giving back to our various communities and Nigeria at large. 



Success Stories
After the registration of The Regenerate initiative for Community Health and Youth Development in 2021, full-fledged activities did not start until 2023. In 2021, a few activities were executed notable of which was the payment of the medical bill of Azeez Wasiu Olawunmi who suffered from urine retention, leading urethroplasty. The patient could not pay his medical hospital bills at Alfa Clinic Sagamu, Ogun State, Nigeria. After a lot of abortive efforts, Mr. Olawunmi reached out to The Regenerate Initiative and we mobilised fund to settle the medical bill to the tune of eighty thousand naira (N80,000), equivalent of $173.52. This facilitated his discharge from Alfa Clinic in Sagamu, Ogun State.
In February 2023, TRI mobilised fund to the tune of N,712,000, equivalent to $1,544.33, to pay the school fees of three students of Kwara State University Malete, Kwara State after reaching out to us. We successfully did this and the students paid their school fees. Two of these students are in their final year (400 Level) and the other is in 300 Level. 

Contact Information
Email: support@regenerate.com 
regenerateinitiative@gmail.com, 
URL:   www.regenerateinitiative.com
Phone: +2348030466019   +2349076690510
Facebook: TheRegenerate Initiative
Twitter:  The Regenerate Initiative TRI 